---
layout: post
title: "Lumia 920"
description: "Thoughts about the impact of the Lumia 920"
category:
tags: [windowsphone, lumia]
---

Nokia has just announced their brand new flagship device, the Lumia 920, running Windows Phone 8.  As well, they also introduced the new midrange phone, the Lumia 820.

First impressions of the Lumia 920 is that it's very similar to the previous generation Lumia 900 and Lumia 800, which is a smart decision, after all, why change something that isn't broken?  While the Lumia 920 appears to be more or less the same as its predecessors, there are several noteworthy improvements to the hardware.

Nokia is touting a new camera sensor, branded as PureView, features new image stabilization technology and image processing technology.  Another innovation I'm excited about is the ability to use the touch screen while wearing gloves.  It's really annoying and uncomfortable to have to take off my gloves just to answer a call in the middle of winter.

The two phones represent that Nokia and Microsoft are able to build a complete, flagship smartphone that rivals the iPhones and Galaxy S phones, which should help its image amongst the various technology news sources.  However, it will not be these two devices that propel Windows Phone's marketshare.

Windows Phone OEMs need to release capable middle- and low-end devices targetted at the general public.  The population that cares enough to buy flagship phones is limited in number, so the real target should be middle- and low-end devices, which are dominated by medicore Android phones.

Microsoft has built Windows Phone to be very capable at fighting this battle.  Its recent update to Windows Phone 7, Tango, allows the OS to operate well with only 256MB of RAM, perfect for the low end market.

Android on the other hand, suffers tremendously when its resources on limited.  Animations become jittery, and touch response is an afterthought when the OS is starved for resources.

If hardware OEMs can deliver the usual Windows Phone experience to consumers at the price point of an HTC Wildfire S, then Windows Phone can definitely begin to grow its marketshare much quicker.

Product Pages:
[Lumia 920](http://www.nokia.com/global/products/phone/lumia920/)
[Lumia 820](http://www.nokia.com/global/products/phone/lumia820/)